---
layout: docs_page
title: Redirect IWA Logins to a Custom Error Page
excerpt: If an IWA login fails, redirect the user to a custom error page.
---

# Redirect Failed IWA Logins to a Custom Error Page


IWA single sign-on Tokens generated by an Okta IWA Agent fail for several reasons. A common failure is due to exceeding the max lifetime of an IWA transaction (aka timeout). When such a failure occurs, Okta automatically redirects the user the the default login page.

If you embed Okta into your solution, you can configure a custom URL that redirects the user to a custom error page.

Our long-term goal is migrate IWA to our IdP framework. To address the IWA gap, Okta should change our processing for IWA tokens to honor the IDP custom error page configuration. If a custom page is defined, Okta should redirect to the URL specified and not send the user to the Okta default login page.

You can define one custom error page per org.

>Note: If the IWA Agent fails to process IWA credentials and generates an SSO token on-premise, the user won't be referred to the custom error page. This
error page is only available when a generated token fails.

## Configure the Custom Error Page

1. From any Admin page, select **Security > Identity Providers**.
   !(/assets/img/idp_custom_error_page.png "Custom Error Page UI")
2. Click the gear icon next to the **Add Identity Provider** button.
3. Provide the requested values:
    * **Default Identity Provider**: Enter the fully-qualified endpoint where unauthenticated users can be authenticated.
    * **Login Error Page**: Select **Use a custom error page**.
    * **Error Page URL**: Enter the fully qualified error page URL, your custom error page.
4. Save your changes.
