---
layout: docs_page
title: Okta API Products Change Log
---

## 2018.09

### Feature Enhancements

The following feature enhancement is expected in preview orgs February 28, 2018, and in production orgs starting on March 5, 2018.

#### Sessions API Supports HTTP Header Prefer

Okta now supports [the HTTP Header `Prefer`](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7240#section-4.2) in [the Sessions API for refreshing sessions](/docs/api/resources/sessions#refresh-current-session). You can extend the session lifetime, but skip any processing work related to building the response body.

Example Request

~~~http
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: SSWS ${api_token} or {sid_cookie}
Prefer: return=minimal

POST https://${yourDomain}.com/api/v1/sessions/{id-or-me}/refresh
~~~

Example Response

~~~http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Preference-Applied: return=minimal
~~~
<!-- OKTA-152559 -->

### System Log Changes

Okta has added and changed a number of system log messages related to OAuth 2.0 and API Access Management for the `/events` System Log to match the error messages in `/logs` that spell out the difference between custom authorization server issues (`.as`) and the Okta Authorization Server (no `.as`):

1. New `/events` Messages:

    1. `app.oauth2.authorize_failure` and `app.oauth2.as.authorize_failure` replace these messages:

        * app.oauth2.authorize.access_denied
        * app.oauth2.authorize.invalid_client_id
        * app.oauth2.authorize.invalid_cache_key
        * app.oauth2.authorize.no_existing_session
        * app.oauth2.authorize.login_failed
        * app.oauth2.authorize.mismatched_user_in_cache_and_session
        * app.oauth2.authorize.user_not_assigned
        * app.oauth2.authorize.scope_denied
        * app.oauth2.as.authorize.warn_failure
        * app.oauth2.as.authorize.scope_denied |

    2. `app.oauth2.as.authorize.scope_denied_failure`  replaces `app.oauth2.as.authorize_scope_denied`

    3. `app.oauth2.as.token.grant_failure` replaces `app.oauth2.as.token.grant.warn_failure` and `app.oauth2.as.token.grant.scope_denied_failure`. The new error message provides a reason string that identifies which type of failure is being reported.
    4. 

2. New `/logs` Messages:

    1. `app.oauth2.authorize.implicit

### Bugs Fixed

The following bug has been fixed and is expected in preview orgs February 14, 2018 and production orgs starting February 27, 2018.

* xxx. (OKTA-xx)
* xxx. (OKTA-xx)
* xxx. (OKTA-xx)
* xxx. (OKTA-xx)
* xxx. (OKTA-xx)

